# Video Transcript: AI OFM MARKETING | Start & Grow Your IG FULL GUIDE

> **Video ID**: YHBP7tWxaP8  
> **Duration**: 15:22  
> **Total Segments**: 32

---

## Full Transcript

[0:00] What's up guys? The long awaited marketing video is here. Before we start the actual video, you have to realize one important thing and that is marketing is absolutely everything. If you have good pictures and good marketing, you will get great results. If you have okay pictures and good marketing, you will still get good results. But if you have the best pictures, if they are 100% realistic and your marketing is [ __ ] you will get [ __ ] results. To use this opportunity to flex a bit, I'm not going to show you those pictures because look, honestly, it is the same as this t-shirt. Look, if you have a giant biceps and you have a long sleeve t-shirt, then no one can see your biceps, right? And it is absolutely the same with these pictures. If you have the best pictures, but no one can see them because you shadowban your account or do something wrong on Instagram, then your best pictures are completely useless. But if people actually start to see your pictures, you will have a much bigger return on investment. So, let's get started. First of all, this video is heavily inspired by this guy Clenboard 4 on our Discord who created a PDF guide from which I took information to make this video and I also combined it with my experience. If you want to download the PDF, you can go to our discord free resources and download it from here. Also, I want to say that this video does not cover chatting. This video does not cover fine view and this video does not cover blackhead stuff. Okay, [snorts] so let's get started. So as I said previously, marketing is absolutely everything. If no one can see your great pictures, then what did you create them for? You created them for yourself, great. But you didn't get any money from it, right? And if you are still insecure about your pictures that people are going to comment that they are AI or stuff like that, I'm going to tell you two things. First of all, most people are not actually aware of AI influencers. You might not think so because everyone surrounding you is talking about AI influencers, but 90% of real people in real world are not aware of them. And the people who are going to buy the nudes of your AI influencer are not aware of them as well. And if you are scared that someone will go to your comments on threads or on Instagram and he will type, "Oh, this is AI. This is artificial intelligence. This is fake. Don't don't follow this." And stuff like that. You can turn off the AI commands in those apps. How do you do that? Well, on our Discord in free resources, there is actually another PDF that you can download. And here you can actually choose which words will not be shown in the comments. So if someone types this is face swap, this comment will not be shown to the customers. And in marketing there are plenty of things to learn. You have to learn what to post, when to post, where to post, what hashtags you use, should you use promotions, should you not use promotions, how to properly warm up your account so you don't get banned, how to promote your fan view because you cannot put it just directly in the bio, and many many other things. So moving on to number two, creating account and status. To be honest with you, if you are completely starting out and you have never done any spamming on Instagram or you haven't created 10 previous accounts or stuff like that and you have just your personal account and maybe few more, you do not need a new phone, you do not need a new SIM card and you do not need a VPN. When I started out, I actually did the mistake that I bought the new phone and bought the SIM cards. But as it turns out, even from my experience and from the experience of the guy who wrote this guide, you do not need a new phone. Like if you want to be 100% safe, if you don't know what to do with your money, then yes, go ahead, buy your phone, buy your SIM card, it cannot harm you, right? It can be only good. But if you have a limited budget and you haven't been shadowbanned or you didn't spam anyone, you do not need to do that. If you decide to create multiple accounts like five accounts, 10 accounts and you want to post all of them at once, then yes, it is a good idea to get new phones and new SIM cards. So, what are the first steps when you create your account? First of all, you have to warm up the account a bit. You have to think from the perspective of the algorithm, right? Like no real person creates the account and just start spamming two reals a day. No one does that. Many people create the account then browse a little bit scroll a little bit then maybe post few pictures then they chat with someone then they post another picture and they gradually start increasing the posting right so you don't want to just post the pictures you want to be the Instagram girl you want to consume the stuff that she would normally consume you have to scroll for a few minutes a day to trick the algorithm to think that you are a real person right after doing this daily for a few weeks posting something then Maybe not. Then you can actually start increasing the posting frequency. So what should your first posts be about? Well, you might have seen some people actually posting almost nudes on Instagram breastfeeding and stuff like that. If those people can get away with it, it is because they are a large accounts. Okay, you are a small account. So you are easily bannable. So from the beginning, you don't want to be a [ __ ] You slowly want to become a bigger and bigger hole. So the first tens of pictures will be just normal pictures. If it's a gym girl then it will be gym pictures. If it's a gamer girl then it will be gamer pictures and stuff like that. And now if you have warm up the account we are getting to posting and we will start with posting frequency. Obviously if you will post 20 reels a day you will get banned. If you will spam you will get banned. So, if your account is just freshly warmed up, you still don't want to post every day, maybe once every other day, and then after a while, you can start posting daily. What you actually want to do and post daily is Instagram stories and threats. Stories are the thing that will keep your account alive. Stories are the thing that will tell Instagram, okay, this account is active, this account is real. Let's push it to the algorithm. and threats from my experience is the best way to get your first few hundred followers and Tik Tok daily frequency is good as well. Now very important thing what not to post. You want not to post the nude stuff and very provocative stuff from the beginning. As I said here you don't want to be a [ __ ] from the beginning. And if you are asking okay but what do I post if I cannot post bikini pictures? Well, you want to post something that resembles your character because as we will talk about in step number six, you have to create your character story. So, for example, if your character is a gym girl, then you will post gym selfie. You will post the dumbbells, right? And if you are doing some reals, it is very easy to get some engagement. So, you can post something that will get people to comment. It can be something like controversial or it can be something as stupid as like what is your favorite Halloween outfit. In stories you want to post like anything. It can be as stupid as like these pictures the outfit of the day. You can write some caption like what are you up to? Put the selfie and people will reply to your story. So you will get better in the eyes of the algorithm. And threads they are very similar to stories but threads can be very effectively in my opinion used for rage bait. Rage bait is a type of text that you will write to trigger emotions in some people. So if your character is a rich spoiled girl, you can write a threat something like, "Who the [ __ ] would work in McDonald's? That's so stupid. Just get your money from your parents." And you will see the flood of comments. You will see the engagement and you will see the followers grow. And in Tik Tok, you want to do pretty much the same as Instagram, but focusing on the reals. If you don't know exactly what to post, my tip for you is to use Pinterest for your inspiration. And I will show you how. If you go to Pinterest and type something like gym girl aesthetic, you will see many pictures. And as I said, for the stories, you don't always want to post just pictures of yourself. You want to post something related to your character. So if you want to post something similar to this, you can just open Gemini or Nano Banana Pro. You will paste the image here and tell him to describe this image in great detail. Then copy the prompt that he created. Then you open another Gemini chat and you will tell him the prompt. He will create the image. You can refine it a bit and you have a completely brand new image that is not stolen from Pinterest that is completely yours and you can use it to post it on the stories. Step number four are promotions. The most important thing that I have to tell you is to never ever buy followers. If you go to some sketchy website and buy 100,000 followers, then yes, you will have 100,000 followers, but Instagram is not stupid. They will detect it and they will start slowly decaying your account because the thing is there is something called engagement rate, which means how big of an engagement you get on your post according to your followers. So, if you have 1 million followers, but only 15 people like your picture, then there is something weird, right? But if you have 2,000 followers and 1,000 people actually like your pictures, that is a very good sign. And now to the promotions. Promotions are a double-edged sword. It can get you a tons of followers. It will get you the good ones because they are organic and they will actually interact with your content. But there is a chance that Instagram will make you a promotional slave and this is experience from many and many people. What does it mean is that like you have some engagement, it is steadily growing then you start promoting your content for money. So it get it gets way up but when you stop promoting Instagram wants more of your money obviously right so Instagram will not push your content as much as previously when you didn't buy promotions because Instagram wants you to buy more promotions to get the engagement higher again. So here you have to make a choice. If you don't use promotions you will grow slow and steady. If you do use promotions, it will be quicker, but you will need to keep investing. And if you decide to use promotions, the sweet spot is around $10 to $15 per post. And obviously, if this investment gets you more followers, it gets you more money, it will be worth it. So, if you spend $200 monthly and you make $2,000 in revenue by selling nudes, you will get $1,800 profit, which is worth it in my opinion. Another important thing that you should consider are hashtags. They are the simplest and most underrated. I won't spend much time here because it is a really simple thing. You just want to use some large hashtags, medium ones, and small ones. How to use them? You don't want to put them directly into the post because it will not be as good-looking. You want to put your hashtags in the comments and you want to do so less than 30 seconds after posting. If you don't know what hashtags to use, just open your favorite AI, chat, GPT, Gemini, doesn't matter. Tell him something about the character and tell him to create the hashtags for you. It's that easy. And now, the most important thing of them all is to create your story. As I said, you can have the best pictures, but if it doesn't make sense, people will not believe it and they will not buy it. So, if your character is a poor 18-year-old student, such girl probably won't post vacations every week, right? If it's a McDonald worker, then it probably won't post expensive outfits. So, your story has to make sense. And to achieve that, you want to create something that is called character bible. You want to be as specific as possible because then later in chatting if people will ask you about something you cannot [ __ ] it up or it will not make sense and they will not buy. So you want to get the correct birthday. You want to get the astrology sign. You have to you have to know her age, her location, where was she born, where does she live, what hobbies does she have, if she have any pets, what are the names of those pets and stuff like that. And very important thing you have to know who is taking the pictures because these people on the internet will create a parasocial relationship with your character. So if there is a possibility that a guy possibly her boyfriend is taking the pictures they will have taken their hopes out. Right? So you always have to say that female friend is taking the pictures. And you also want to go deeper like what are her values? What are her goals? What is her personality? What is her what is her backstory? Was she bullied in school? And more and more details. And as I said, if your character is an aesthetic gym girl, you should probably post pictures similar to this. You probably shouldn't post pictures from a Lamborghini in Dubai. That's stupid, right? And to finish the video, I have some final tips for you. You don't want to start promoting your fan view if you have no followers. because if Instagram sees it, there is a much higher possibility that they will detect you as a spam. You also don't want to put it directly in the bio. What you want to do is to create a story, put it into the story, and then put the story into the highlights on your profile so people will be able to click on that story 24/7. If you decide to do videos, make sure that those videos look real because if you have great pictures and then post obviously AI video, it can destroy your whole account. I also highly recommend that you don't overthink artistically all of the images because there are AI accounts that are successful. Okay, you don't have to overthink the quality of the images. But if you see like very very bad plastic looking accounts with millions of followers, those followers are probably bought. So you don't have to worry that they are like hyper successful. If English is not your native language, it is a very good idea to use your native language because then when you will be chatting with the people and when you will want to do some hyper niche stuff to your country, you will be much more able to do that. And if you are just starting out, don't create too many accounts because when you decide to create an account, create the story, manage it, post stories every day, post reals every day, post threads every day. It consumes a lot of time. So for starters, I recommend that you do just one account, learn the basics, and then if you are successful with that one account, then scale it up. So yeah, this is it for today's video. Hope you liked it. If you have any other topics that you would like to see covered, either from the marketing perspective or from the creation of the AI influencers perspective, then write me a comment and I will probably make that video. Don't forget to join our Discord and see you soon.

